- Say hi again to the people. - All right, okay, hi camera,
hi everybody.
I'm John Lindblad, I'm from WSocial.
And if you heard the previous session from Gander, there's
gonna be a lot of similarities here.
WSocial is also a new social medium being started up
in the same sort of context that we just heard.
And we are also very adamant about the ability to be
able to trust your feed and maybe quiet things down a little
bit.
So we sort of want to go back to what the golden
age when Twitter was new and actually useful, where we had common
understanding and global discussion that we could really participate in in a
useful way.
We are all for real humans, quality journalism and open debate.
So why now?
Well, I don't need to go into this so much.
You, we already know the situation in the world and in Europe,
just as here in Canada, there is a lot of strong feelings
about having something that's independent and that nobody should be able
to shut down.
But we don't want to be separatist, just like
most other people.
We want to be part of the whole ecosystem here, but not
being dependent on certain pieces here that we don't control.
So I'll mention some core principles.
So we are hosted in Europe, both when it comes to ownership
and the actual hosting and all the services.
We verify humans, I'll come back to that.
We want to be open and transparent.
So show exactly what we are doing and why we're doing
things.
We want to allow free speech according to European laws and norms.
We don't want to be interfering in what people say and
stuff.
Everybody should have their voice.
That's why we go back to these verified humans.
Anybody who is a human should have this democratic right to say
whatever they want.
Then as a participant in this network, you also have your right
to choose what to listen to or not listen to, of course.
So democracy is very important to us.
We want to be good at Prado citizens.
If we, we are pretty new to this.
So if we goof, let us know.
We of course wanted to start on at Prado, both from
the sort of political point of view, this is the right thing
to do, but this is also just as we noticed a cold
start problem without 40 million users would be difficult.
So it's a no brainer really.
Okay, verified humans.
You have already seen this.
This is a solved problem, right?
You just check that box and we know it's human.
Maybe.
No, so we really want to verify that your users are human.
Or we will allow bots and organizations and things like this too,
but they will be marked as such.
This is an organization, this is a bot and so on.
So we actually go all the way to scanning passports or
ID documents.
So when you click on that little ID badge next to your
name, you will be able to see things about who you are.
You will see at least, right now, it's only showing that
you are a human, but it will show more things about you
that you want to share.
You can also be anonymous here.
You don't have to share your real name, but we will
know that you are a human.
And how can we know that you're a human and not
knowing who you are?
Actually, I have this PDS call here.
You can see that when you get your profile, you can tell
that somebody is a human here.
Yeah, we are building the whole system up into two separate domains.
We have one part of the system, actually a separate company, that
is running something called Widentity.
And Widentity, that's the one that's scanning your
passport and storing locally in the phone who you are.
It will know your nationality, birth date, full name.
In some countries, it will know your social security number.
It will have the face of your photo, photo of your face.
But it will not share that with WSocial.
So WSocial is a separate app, separate company that knows,
of course, everything that you know about your online life, your posts,
your friends, your likes, and all that.
But they will not know who you are.
The only thing that unifies these two is this UU
ID, 32 digit hex random number, basically.
So if you are on the WID side, identity side, you
will know that this is a human, but not who it is
on social media.
And on WSocial, you will know that this is somebody,
that's a real human, but not who that is.
We also bring over nationality and birth year, or actually that
's, we are planning to, we are not doing that right now.
And optionally, somebody who really wants to verify, I am really
this person, should have an ability to verify that this is my
real name, if they want to.
Some people might want to.
Who are we?
We are about two dozen people spread out over Europe.
WSocial is incorporated in Stockholm, or actually it's not
incorporated, it's a foundation.
So it's a foundation that owns these two companies, the W
Identity Company and the WSocial Company.
We have a CEO, Anna Zeiter.
She has a background as privacy executive at eBay, and she has
a PhD in free speech and data, GDPR and all those
things.
Legal kind of background.
And I'm just a developer.
Business model, okay, so we will have some advertisements at some point
in the future, we think.
And having verified human users is a good thing, because the advertisers
typically want to pay more for ads for humans than for ads
for bots.
And we also, since we have this W Identity app that
really knows who you are, and you can connect that app to
wallets and banks and stuff, it will be easy for us
to add micropayments.
So that's really something that we're working on, especially for
news media.
So we want to work with the news medias.
We have negotiations ongoing with a number of different European media houses
for how we should not steal their content, but really provide the
platform for their content.
So we want to redistribute, work together with media sites.
What did we do?
Okay, we launched this project in January in Davos.
And within one week of the announcement, we noticed on our social
media monitoring dashboards that we had 1 billion social media views
of posts that mentioned W Social.
So some attention seems to have come our way.
Yeah, and we're just taking in the first few users this
week.
We want to scale it up a little bit slowly so let
's see that our infrastructure holds up.
And the next steps here, so around May timeframe or so, we
think that we will be opening up for the waitlist.
We have a waitlist and then open up for anybody without
any sort of invitation codes around that time.
And what we hope to do with you here is of course,
we want to say hello.
We are glad to be here among at Prada friends.
And if anybody wants to come with some ideas, proposals, questions, or
whatever it is, just say hello.
Come to me and we'll talk.
This talk is coming to an end so it will have to
be offline or afterwards.
We really want to be good at Prada citizens.
And since we're new to this, we're probably going to
do a few things wrong.
I already, during this couple of days here, noticed a few things
that I should have done differently.
We'll fix that whenever you see something that's a bit
strange or perhaps even bad, let us know.
And we know that a lot of the things that we aspire
to do on at Prado is already maybe happening somewhere, like
for example, there's permission data and stuff like that.
So let us know when we should be taking part in something
like that.
And we also have a few ideas, especially around this, when it
comes to account certification, verification, and account types.
So this is a human account.
We want to have some sort of commonly agreed upon way to
express that so that everybody in the atmosphere can tell.
Wish us luck.
Thank you.